Documentation for changes related to 'You are already logged in' scen… (#28595)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/server_admin/topics/authentication/authentication-sessions.adoc

[[_authentication-sessions]]
=== Authentication sessions

When a login page is opened for the first time in a web browser, {project_name} creates an object called authentication session that stores some useful information about the request.
Whenever a new login page is opened from a different tab in the same browser, {project_name} creates a new record called authentication sub-session that is stored within the authentication session.
Authentication requests can come from any type of clients such as the Admin CLI. In that case, a new authentication session is also created with one authentication sub-session.
Please note that authentication sessions can be created also in other ways than using a browser flow.

> The authentication session usually expires after 30 minutes by default. The exact time is specified by *Login timeout* switch in the *Sessions* tab of the admin console when <<configuring-realms,configuring realm>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authentication session usually expires after 30 minutes by default. The exact time is specified by the *Login timeout* switch in the *Sessions* tab of the admin console when <<configuring-realms,configuring realm>>.
```

==== Authentication in more browser tabs

> As pointed above, it can happen that user is trying to authenticate to {project_name} server from multiple browser tabs of same browser. However when user authenticates in one of browser tabs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in the previous section, a situation can involve a user who is trying to authenticate to the {project_name} server from multiple tabs of a single browser. However, when that user authenticates in one browser tab,
```

> the other browser tabs will automatically restart the authentication in themselves. This is done due the small javascript available on {project_name} login pages. The restart will typically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the other browser tabs will automatically restart the authentication. This authentication occurs due to the small javascript available on the {project_name} login pages. The restart will typically
```

> automatically authenticate user in other browser tabs and redirect to clients because there is SSO session now due the fact that user just successfully authenticated in first browser tab. There

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticate the user in other browser tabs and redirect to clients because there is an SSO session now due to the fact that the user just successfully authenticated in first browser tab. 
```

> are some rare exceptions when user is not automatically authenticated in other browser tabs, such as for instance using of OIDC parameter _prompt=login_ or <<_step-up-flow, step-up authentication>>  requesting stronger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some rare exceptions exist when a user is not automatically authenticated in other browser tabs, such as for instance when using an OIDC parameter _prompt=login_ or <<_step-up-flow, step-up authentication>>  requesting stronger
```

> authentication factor than currently authenticated factor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentication factor than the currently authenticated factor.
```

> In some rare cases, it can happen that after authentication in first browser tab, the other browser tabs are not able to restart authentication because authentication session is already

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some rare cases, it can happen that after authentication in the first browser tab, other browser tabs are not able to restart authentication because the authentication session is already
```

> expired. In this case, the particular browser tab will redirect error about expired authentication session back to the client in a protocol specific way. For more details, see the corresponding sections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expired. In this case, the particular browser tab will redirect the error about the expired authentication session back to the client in a protocol specific way. For more details, see the corresponding sections
```

> of  link:{adapterguide_link}#_oidc-errors[OIDC documentation] and  link:{adapterguide_link}#_saml-errors[SAML documentation]. When client application receives such error, it can immediately send again OIDC/SAML authentication request to {project_name} as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of  link:{adapterguide_link}#_oidc-errors[OIDC documentation] and  link:{adapterguide_link}#_saml-errors[SAML documentation]. When the client application receives such an error, it can immediately send again the OIDC/SAML authentication request to {project_name} as
```

this should usually automatically authenticate user due the existing SSO session as discussed above. As a result, end user would be authenticated automatically in all browser tabs.

> The link:{adapterguide_link}#_javascript_adapter[{project_name} Javascript adapter], link:{adapterguide_link}#_saml[{project_name} SAML adapter] and <<_identity_broker, {project_name} Identity provider>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:{adapterguide_link}#_javascript_adapter[{project_name} Javascript adapter], link:{adapterguide_link}#_saml[{project_name} SAML adapter], and <<_identity_broker, {project_name} Identity provider>>
```

> support to handle this error automatically and retry authentication to {project_name} server in such a case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support to handle this error automatically and retry the authentication to tje {project_name} server in such a case.
```
